DOC-7666 incident event API (#5960)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/event-api/incident-event-rest-api.mdx

---
title: Incident event REST API
tags:
  - Alerts and Applied Intelligence
  - Applied intelligence
  - Incident intelligence

> metaDescription: Read about how to report activities from your incident management system to New Relic for advanced correlation.

Reviewer: I feel that 'applied intelligence' should be ref'ed in metadescription.

---

> You can use the incident event REST API to report custom events to New Relic.

Reviewer: I wanted to confirm that they want to call this this name. Is it definitely a 'REST API'? I want to confirm that because my current understanding reading this is that it's a REST API that then sends data to our Event API. Am I getting that correct? if so, I wonder if we might make that more clear/explicit.

Author: Yeah, that's an important distinction. Good call.

The incident API is built on our [event API](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api).

The incident event API is an asynchronous endpoint. This means you can send a large volume of POSTS, reliably, with low-response latency.

## Using the API: an overview [#overview]

Here's the general process for sending custom incident events to New Relic via the incident event API:

1. Generate a [license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key) for the account you want to report data to.

> 2. Before you get started creating custom attributes, review the [event API's limits and restricted characters](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api/#limits).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Before you get started creating custom attributes, review the [Event API's limits and restricted characters](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api/#limits).
```

3. Generate the JSON for your incident event that follows our [JSON format guidelines](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api#instrument).
4. Submit a compressed JSON payload (for example, gzip or deflate) to the HTTPS endpoint using curl in a POST request.

Once you've started sending incident event data to New Relic, we recommend that you set up [NRQL alert conditions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-nrql-alert-conditions) to get notifications about parsing errors.

## Example JSON [#example-json]

Your JSON payload may look something like this example.

```json
[
  {
    "eventType": "NrAiIncidentExternal",
    "title": "Test",
    "description": "The latency is above threshold of 500000 MS",
    "state": "trigger",
    "source": "luna",
    "entityName": "testEntity",
    "entity.guid": "testEntity123",
    "aggregationTag.serviceId": 5,
    "aggregationTag.environment": "testing",
    "aggregationTag.errorId": 10543,
    "tag.stackTrace": "some stack trace...",
    "version": 1
  }
]
```

> The `eventType` field must use `NrAiIncidentExternal`.

Reviewer: Are we adding this to the data dictionary? Is any of this maybe related to this event https://docs.newrelic.com/attribute-dictionary/?event=NrAiIncident ?

Author: Yeah, it's already in the data dictionary

Author: I mean, it's just "external" version of NrAiIncident. But I guess it should also be added to the data dictionary

Author: Added!

## Send your incident event from the command line [#cli]

> Use curl to send your JSON payload.

Reviewer: Like a few other places I mentioned, I think it's good to give an explicit explanation of what's following (e.g., 'here's an example of...') cause I think there's risk of them thinking 'oh must it be exactly this way?' instead of 'oh this is just one of many possible examples'.

Author: Good call!

```bash

> gzip -c example_incidents.json | curl --data-binary @- -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "X-Insert-Key: <var>YOUR_INSERT_KEY</var>" -H "Content-Encoding: gzip"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gzip -c example_incidents.json | curl --data-binary @- -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Api-Key: <var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var>" -H "Content-Encoding: gzip"
```

Reviewer: This is related to change (which it'd be good to let the team know about) that the 'insert key' is now interchangeable with the license key and we should be using 'license key' as the preferred key for all ingest stuff. And use the 'Api-Key' header instead also.

https://staging-insights-collector.newrelic.com/v1/accounts/<var>YOUR_ACCOUNT</var>/events
```

```bash
Response
{"success":true, "uuid":"xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx"}%
```

> Once you've successfully sent your incident event data, see it in the UI or via [NRDB, the New Relic database](/docs/data-apis/get-started/nrdb-horsepower-under-hood).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've successfully sent your incident event data, you can see it in the applied intelligence UI or by [querying that data](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language).
```

Reviewer: I think it's generally better for customers to reference querying (easy to understand and general concept) vs NRDB (which we hardly ever reference). for more context; up until recently we never mentioned NRDB at all, which is another reason it's not that intuitive to know what we mean. generally I don't think it's a very meaningful concept, as it really just means it's New Relic's database and the main point to customers is: you can query it.

> ### Example NRDB query for incident events [#nrdb-example]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example query for incident events [#nrdb-example]
```

Reviewer: For more context about why I think this change is good: i think it's generally good to just refer to NRQL queries as 'queries'. We have other queries (e.g., prometheus query and basic, non-NRQL queries), but i think it's quite clear from context what we mean, and the NRQL query is our main way to query (e.g., even the basic, non-NRQL query uses NRQL under hood). But I also don't think it's bad to refer to 'NRQL queries' either (and link to the 'intro to NRQL' doc for more info).

Author: Totally agree!

> You can query the New Relic database with [Nerdgraph, our GraphQL API](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph/).

Reviewer: You can just refer to it as 'NerdGraph' generally. Or 'our NerdGraph API' if you need context that it's an API. I think explaining that it's GraphQL is fine in the main NerdGraph docs, but overkill for other docs/resources.

> 

Reviewer: I think you should preface the examples with something like 'Here's an example of...' just to make it crystal clear this is just one of many examples we might give.

    "accumulations.origins": "[\"luna\"]",
    "accumulations.entity_guid": "[\"testEntity123\"]",
    "incidentId": "a06ffb92-2f7e-473b-953f-151ff4777cb0",
    "labels.errorId": "10543",
    "dataMLModules": "{}",
    "triggerEvent": "VIOLATION_ADDED",
    "accumulations.tag.stackTrace": "[\"some stack trace...\"]",
    "isIint": false,
    "accumulations.sources": "[\"rest\"]",
    "entitiesData": "{\"name\":\"testEntity\",\"id\":\"testEntity123\",\"type\":\"unknown\",\"entities\":\"{\\\"id\\\":\\\"testEntity123\\\",\\\"name\\\":\\\"testEntity\\\",\\\"type\\\":\\\"unknown\\\"}\"}",
    "annotations": "{\"title\":[\"Test\",\"Test2222\",\"Test3\"],\"description\":[\"The latency is above threshold of 500000 MS\"]}",
    "labels": "{\"accountId\":\"XXXXXXX\",\"originalAccountId\":\"XXXXXXX\",\"entityId\":\"testEntity123\",\"entityName\":\"testEntity\",\"entityType\":\"unknown\",\"aggregationKey\":\"416e2e55069764086ad83e97a1160be0cb4c545b7950522f7c86baaa2a11b9b6\",\"serviceId\":\"5\",\"errorId\":\"10543\",\"environment\":\"testing\"}",
    "state": "CREATED"
  }
]
```

## API specifications [#api-specs]

> For descriptions of our value types, see [our event API JSON guidelines](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api/#json-guidelines).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For descriptions of our value types, see [our Event API JSON guidelines](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api/#json-guidelines).
```

> 

Reviewer: It feels like we need a little more preface to these things. What is the relationship between these and the Event API JSON guidelines just mentioned?

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Field
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `aggregationTag.*`

        _string_, _number_, or _timestamp_
      </td>
      <td>
        **REQUIRED**

        Any attribute prefixed with `aggregationTag` will be used to aggregate trigger events together.

>         In other words, two trigger events with the same aggregation tags are aggregated to the same incident. This assumes there's no resolve event between them).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        In other words, two trigger events with the same aggregation tags are aggregated to the same incident. (This assumes there's no resolve event between them).
```

        When resolving incidents, it’s important that the resolve event include the same aggregation tags.

        Aggregations tags with reserved keywords are filtered out. For example, in a JSON payload with `aggregationTag.priority: 2` this key-value pair will be omitted in the incident event with these reserved keywords:

        ```json
        reserved_key: {"priority",  "accountId", "originalAccountId", "policyId", "conditionId", "aggregationKey", "entityType", "entityName", "entityId", "violationUuid", "violationId", "nrIncidentId" }
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `state`

>        ` _enum: {trigger, resolve, acknowledge}_`

Reviewer: formatting was screwed up on these and following cell, the underlining.

      </td>
      <td>
        **REQUIRED**

        Whether the event should trigger a new incident or resolve an existing one.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `priority`

        `_enum: {low, medium, high, critical}_`
      </td>
      <td>
        The incident’s priority. Default: _high_.

        Highest priority will be used when different priorities are sent.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `title`

        _string_

      </td>
      <td>
        **REQUIRED, when `state` is _trigger_**

>         The triggering event's title

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The triggering event's title.
```

Once you've started sending incident event data to New Relic, we recommend that you set up [NRQL alert conditions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-nrql-alert-conditions) to get notifications about parsing errors.

## Example JSON [#example-json]

Your JSON payload may look something like this example.

```json
[
  {
    "eventType": "NrAiIncidentExternal",
    "title": "Test",
    "description": "The latency is above threshold of 500000 MS",
    "state": "trigger",
    "source": "luna",
    "entityName": "testEntity",
    "entity.guid": "testEntity123",
    "aggregationTag.serviceId": 5,
    "aggregationTag.environment": "testing",
    "aggregationTag.errorId": 10543,
    "tag.stackTrace": "some stack trace...",
    "version": 1
  }
]
```

The `eventType` field must use `NrAiIncidentExternal`.

## Send your incident event from the command line [#cli]

Here's an example of how to use curl to send your JSON payload.

```bash
gzip -c example_incidents.json | curl --data-binary @- -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Api-Key: <var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var>" -H "Content-Encoding: gzip"

> https://staging-insights-collector.newrelic.com/v1/accounts/<var>YOUR_ACCOUNT</var>/events

Reviewer: happened to notice staging url here

Author: That's what they had in the original draft. I'll check on that.

Author: Yup, it should be a non-staging URL

gzip -c example_incidents.json | curl --data-binary @- -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "X-Insert-Key: <var>YOUR_INSERT_KEY</var>" -H "Content-Encoding: gzip" 
https://staging-insights-collector.newrelic.com/v1/accounts/<var>YOUR_ACCOUNT</var>/events
```

```bash
Response 
{"success":true, "uuid":"<var>YOUR_NEW_RELIC_ACCOUNT_ID</var>"}%
```

Once you've successfully sent your incident event data, see it in the UI or via [NRDB, the New Relic database](/docs/data-apis/get-started/nrdb-horsepower-under-hood).

### Example NRDB query for incident events [#nrdb-example]

You can query the New Relic database with [Nerdgraph, our GraphQL API](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph/).

```json
{
  actor {
    account(id: <var>YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID</var>) {
      nrql(query: "SELECT * FROM NrAiInternalIncident since 3 days ago") {
        results
      }
    }
  }
}

>          "results": [

Reviewer 2: i think wrapping `"results": [...]` in curlies `{}` may make the scary red text go away

Reviewer 2: oh and it's missing the closing `]`

              "isIint": false,
              "accumulations.sources": "[\"rest\"]",
              "entitiesData": "{\"name\":\"testEntity\",\"id\":\"testEntity123\",\"type\":\"unknown\",\"entities\":\"{\\\"id\\\":\\\"testEntity123\\\",\\\"name\\\":\\\"testEntity\\\",\\\"type\\\":\\\"unknown\\\"}\"}",
              "annotations": "{\"title\":[\"Test\",\"Test2222\",\"Test3\"],\"description\":[\"The latency is above threshold of 500000 MS\"]}",
              "labels": "{\"accountId\":\"XXXXXXX\",\"originalAccountId\":\"XXXXXXX\",\"entityId\":\"testEntity123\",\"entityName\":\"testEntity\",\"entityType\":\"unknown\",\"aggregationKey\":\"416e2e55069764086ad83e97a1160be0cb4c545b7950522f7c86baaa2a11b9b6\",\"serviceId\":\"5\",\"errorId\":\"10543\",\"environment\":\"testing\"}",
              "state": "CREATED"
            }
```

## API specifications [#api-specs]

For descriptions of our value types, see [our event API JSON guidelines](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api/#json-guidelines).

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Field
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

>     <tbody>

Reviewer 2: not sure if this causes build failures, but i _think_ we may want a new, empty line between `thead` and `tbody` here

Author: This is the first I've heard of this. This is the standard table markup that we have in keyboard maestro. Maybe it'd be good to write up a list of little gotchas like this?
